---
title: "v1.3"
sidebar_position: -3
---

# Version 1.3

## New Features

- Sized Collections
- Burning NFTs
- Set Token Standard

## New Instructions

- `CreateMetadataAccountV3`
  - Same as `CreateMetadataAccount2`, but supports `CollectionDetails`
- `VerifySizeCollectionItem`
  - Allows a sized collection item `verified` flag to become `true` on an NFT to represent a Certified Collection. Essentially this officially adds to a Collection.
- `UnVerifySizedCollectionItem`
  - Allows a sized collection `verified` flag to become `false` on an NFT to represent a Certified Collection. Essentially this officially removes from a Collection.
- `SetAndVerifySizedCollectionItem`
  - Allows both setting and verifying, in the same instruction, the collection item for a sized collection.
- `SetCollectionSize`
  - Allows an unsized collecetion to set its size once to migrate to the new sized collection standard.
- `SetTokenStandard`
  - Allows a token without a token standard to have it set. The program automatically detects and sets the correct token standard type.
- `BurnNft`
  - Allows the owner of a NFT to burn it and reclaim funds locked up in token, metadata and edition accounts.


## Deprecations

- The following instruction now shows a deprecation warning when executed
  - `CreateMetadataAccountV2` - _please use `CreateMetadataAccountV3` instead_

## Additional Links

- [Token Metadata V1.3 Proposal](https://github.com/metaplex-foundation/metaplex-program-library/discussions/444)
